# Jonah ~ *“Dove”*

## Observations/Notes
  - I believe that many (I dare say 'most') Christians have a wrong view of this book. From their perspective, a simple outline of the events in this book would be something like: 
    
    *First, Jonah disobeys God's command to go to Nineveh by sailing for Tarshish (ch. 1). Jonah is then thrown overboard during the storm and swallowed by a "great fish" (1:17). Jonah repents (ch. 2) and goes to Nineveh where he does what God had originally asked him to do (ch. 3). After all of this, Jonah slips back into his former attitude (from ch. 1) where he wishes that God had not show His mercy and compassion to the Ninevites (ch. 4).*
    
    This outline, however, is not accurate. The primary problem is that it misunderstands Jonah's prayer in Jonah 2. Not every prayer, even one recorded in the Bible, is necessarily good or completely sound from a theological perspective. In this case, it is easy to view this prayer as one of *repentance* when, in reality, Jonah never repents. In fact, while he does thank God for His deliverance, he overemphasizes his own role in his salvation (see verses 2:4 and 2:7). Jonah does not seem to understand what the sailors said in 1:14: "... for You, oh YHWH, have done as it pleased you".

    Most of what Jonah does and says in this book is wrong and, in many ways, **unrepentant Jonah is a foil for the repentant gentiles** he meets throughout this story. It is the gentiles who are exemplary in responding to God in this book and not Jonah.
  - Jonah contains what is one of the most fantastic stories in the whole Bible: Jonah getting swallowed by a "great fish" (1:17). There has been much ink spilled on this subject already and I have nothing to contribute to the discussion more than to say that if God created the universe, He can certainly control a fish and supernaturally preserve the life of anyone He wills inside or outside of a fish. I caution the reader to not get too caught up in the details of the fish as this is not the focus presented in the text. The focus is that God can save whom He wills, when He wills, how He wills, and for reasons He knows and wills.
  - Because the book is so short and we are not given a lot of historical and contextual background in the book itself, it is easy to lose sight of the fact that the revival described in 3:5-9 is one of the greatest described in the *entire* Bible (probably second only to the future, Jewish revival described in Revelation 7:4-8). It appears that the vast majority of the population of Nineveh (around 120,000 according to 4:11), humbled themselves and repented (3:10). What a wonderful image! And, what a stark contrast between the gentiles, who quickly humble themselves and repent, and Jonah who never repents.
