# Job

## Authorship and Audience
The authorship of Job is highly debated. Some claim Job was the author, others Elihu, others say it must have been some by-stander. Ultimately, we really do not know as we have no explicit statement from the text and no conclusive evidence from history. In my opinion, there are a few points that make **Elihu** the most likely author. First, I do not believe the author was Job. If Job wrote the book after the events took place, this would mean that he would have been given revelation into the courtroom scenes in Job one and two. This would give him insight into the cause of his suffering which, while still not vindicating God's rightness in the matter, would have at least helped him understand the background to his suffering. For poetic reasons, I believe that he never got this understanding and never had the full story revealed to him in his lifetime. The second argument for Elihu as the author is that Elihu is the only one who interacts in the story who is not rebuked by God or Job (unlike Eliphaz, Bildad, Zophar, and Job's wife). It appears that Elihu is right in most of what he has to say and, thus, would be a good candidate for recording the exchange.

No audience is explicitly given in the book of Job and any views on the audience of this book are closely tied to one's view of when the book was written. As I believe the book was likely written during the time of the Patriarchs, I believe this book *may* have been shared with the patriarchs themselves or the early nation of Israel. This is largely based on the fact that Elihu is called a "Buzite" (Job 32:6) and Buz is mentioned in Genesis 22:20-21 as one of Abraham's nephews). As mentioned, the audience is largely dictated by the date when the book was written and that is a matter of great debate with no explicit statements in the text.

## Date and Context
One of the interesting things about the book of Job is that it is the book that probably has the widest possible date range suggested by scholars. Some suggest it was written as late as after the exile, during the fifth century BC (499 - 400 B.C.) while others propose it was written as early as the times of the Patriarchs (the times of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob described in Genesis). I argue that the book of Job was written earlier (no later than the time of Moses) and probably during the time of the Patriarchs. This argument is supported by the claim that Job lived 140 years *after* the events described in the book of Job (see Job 42:16), the language used (for example, the use of the word "Eloah" and "El" for God), and Job's role as a 'priestly' intercessor in Job 42:7-10 (which is similar to Abraham in Genesis 20:17).

## Outline
There is a summary of the dialog between Job and his friends [here](old_testament/wisdom_literature/job_summary.md).
