# 2 Peter

## Authorship and Audience
In terms of authorship, this book is among the most widely disputed books in the New Testament. When mentioning the book, Origen (185 - 253) notes that there were some who disputed Petrine authorship of this book. Many modern scholars concur in saying that Peter was not the author of 2 Peter. There is a good discussion of this debate in the "Introduction" section [here](https://bible.org/seriespage/second-peter-introduction-argument-and-outline). I will leave it to you to investigate these claims as there has already been much ink spilled about the subject and I have nothing more to contribute. Personally, I find the most compelling argument against Petrine authorship is the significant difference in the quality and character of language used in 1 Peter versus that of 2 Peter. I feel this can be easily explained, however, by 1 Peter 5:12 which implies that Silvanus was an [amenuensis](https://wikipedia.org/wiki/Amanuensis) who had better Greek than Peter, who wrote 2 Peter with his own hand. Thus, I support Petrine authorship of this letter.

As to the audience of this book. verse one states that the audience is believers. 2 Peter 3:1 refers to 1 Peter, so it is reasonable to assume that the audience of 2 Peter had received or was familiar with 1 Peter (see *Authorship and Audience* section for that book). 2 Peter 3:15 also notes that the audience had received a letter from Paul at one point. Although we don't know of any Pauline letter addressed to believers in the churches mentioned as the audience of 1 Peter, it could be that Paul's letters were passed around to those churches or that Paul had written other letters of which we are not aware.

## Date and Context
Assuming this letter was indeed written by Peter and that the tradition is correct in saying that Peter was killed by Nero, Nero died in 68 A.D. which means that this letter was written, at the latest, before or during 68 AD. 2 Peter 1:14 shows that Peter thought his death was imminent which, if correct, would date this letter **shortly before or during 68 AD**.
